Add Idefics 3! (#32473)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/idefics3.md

<!--Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Idefics3

## Overview

> The Idefics3 model was proposed in [<INSERT PAPER NAME HERE>](<INSERT PAPER LINK HERE>) by <INSERT AUTHORS HERE>.

Author: Filled in, we published the paper yesterday :)

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Idefics3

## Overview

The Idefics3 model was proposed in [Building and better understanding vision-language models: insights and future directions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.12637) by Hugo Laurençon, Andrés Marafioti, Victor Sanh, and Léo Tronchon.

Idefics3 is an adaptation of the Idefics2 model with three main differences:

- It uses Llama3 for the text model.
- It uses an updated processing logic for the images.
- It removes the perceiver.

> Input images are either upsampled such that the longest side is 4*364 (if `do_resize` is set `True`) or processed in their original resolution.

Author: Improve the doc significantly :)

> Input images are either upsampled such that the longest side is 4*364 (if `do_resize` is set `True`) or processed in their original resolution.

Author: added it with more changes

> patches, or not, depending on the resolution. See [Idefics2] for more details on the model architecture.

Author: Removed the reference to idefics2 and improved the description:
Input images are either upsampled (if do_resize is set to True) of processed in their original resolution.
In any case, the image processors decomposes images in patches of 364x364 pixels.

> In any case, the image processors decomposes images in patches of 364x364 pixels.

Author: Changed for: then decomposes images into square patches of max_size pixels.

Tips:

The input given to the model will be resized by default such that the longest side is 4*364. For faster inference, set do_resize to False.

This model was contributed by [amyeroberts](https://huggingface.co/amyeroberts) and [andimarafioti](https://huggingface.co/andito).

> The original code can be found [here](<INSERT LINK TO GITHUB REPO HERE>).

Author: Removed this, there is no original code open sourced :(

<!--Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Idefics3

## Overview

The Idefics3 model was proposed in [Building and better understanding vision-language models: insights and future directions](https://huggingface.co/papers/2408.12637) by Hugo Laurençon, Andrés Marafioti, Victor Sanh, and Léo Tronchon.

> Idefics3 is an adaptation of the Idefics2 model with three main differences:
> 
> - It uses Llama3 for the text model.
> - It uses an updated processing logic for the images.
> - It removes the perceiver.
> 
> Input images are processed either by upsampling (if resizing is enabled) or at their original resolution. The resizing behavior depends on two parameters: do_resize and size.
> 
> If `do_resize` is set to `True`, the model resizes images so that the longest edge is 4*364 pixels by default.
> The default resizing behavior can be customized by passing a dictionary to the `size` parameter. For example, `{"longest_edge": 4 * 364}` is the default, but you can change it to a different value if needed.
> 
> Here’s how to control resizing and set a custom size:
> ```python
> image_processor = Idefics3ImageProcessor(do_resize=True, size={"longest_edge": 2 * 364}, max_image_size=364)
> ```
> 
> Additionally, the `max_image_size` parameter, which controls the size of each square patch the image is decomposed into, is set to 364 by default but can be adjusted as needed. After resizing (if applicable), the image processor decomposes the images into square patches based on the `max_image_size` parameter.
> 
> The abstract from the paper is the following:
> 
> *The field of vision-language models (VLMs), which take images and texts as inputs and output texts, is rapidly evolving and has yet to reach consensus on several key aspects of the development pipeline, including data, architecture, and training methods. This paper can be seen as a tutorial for building a VLM. We begin by providing a comprehensive overview of the current state-of-the-art approaches, highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of each, addressing the major challenges in the field, and suggesting promising research directions for underexplored areas. We then walk through the practical steps to build Idefics3-8B, a powerful VLM that significantly outperforms its predecessor Idefics2-8B, while being trained efficiently, exclusively on open datasets, and using a straightforward pipeline. These steps include the creation of Docmatix, a dataset for improving document understanding capabilities, which is 240 times larger than previously available datasets. We release the model along with the datasets created for its training.*
> 
> Tips:
> 
> - By default, the input given to the model will be resized by default such that the longest side is 4*364. For faster inference, set `do_resize` to `False`.

Reviewer: * make the ordering match the standard pattern for other model docs 
* clarification and removal of ambiguous parts e.g. "inputs" 

```suggestion
Idefics3 is an adaptation of the Idefics2 model with three main differences:

- Llama3 used for the text model.
- Updated processing logic for the images
- Removal of the perceiver.

The abstract from the paper is the following:

*The field of vision-language models (VLMs), which take images and texts as inputs and output texts, is rapidly evolving and has yet to reach consensus on several key aspects of the development pipeline, including data, architecture, and training methods. This paper can be seen as a tutorial for building a VLM. We begin by providing a comprehensive overview of the current state-of-the-art approaches, highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of each, addressing the major challenges in the field, and suggesting promising research directions for underexplored areas. We then walk through the practical steps to build Idefics3-8B, a powerful VLM that significantly outperforms its predecessor Idefics2-8B, while being trained efficiently, exclusively on open datasets, and using a straightforward pipeline. These steps include the creation of Docmatix, a dataset for improving document understanding capabilities, which is 240 times larger than previously available datasets. We release the model along with the datasets created for its training.*

## Usage tips

By default, input images will be resized such that their longest side is 4*364. For faster inference, one can disable this by setting `do_resize` to `False`, or modifying the `size` dict to a smaller value in the processor or image processor.

Here’s an example how to set a custom size:
```python
image_processor = Idefics3ImageProcessor(size={"longest_edge": 2 * 364}, max_image_size=364)
```

After resizing (if applicable), the image processor decomposes the images into square patches. The size of the square patches is controlled by `max_image_size`.

```

Author: adapted the order

> - By default, the input given to the model will be resized by default such that the longest side is 4*364. For faster inference, set `do_resize` to `False`.

Author: Removed second "by default"

> - By default, the input given to the model will be resized by default such that the longest side is 4*364. For faster inference, set `do_resize` to `False`.

Author: Removed the whole tips section since this was the only tip
